[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Tom, what a pleasure
to sit and talk with you.
>> Thank you, Chantal.
Great to be here.
>> You have written a
remarkable and surprising book.
And the reason I
say surprising is
that I think a lot of
people in the world
would say bringing
spirituality into a workplace
is not such a good idea.
Have you heard that philosophy
before, that theory?
>> Yeah.
And I would say that you're
not bringing anything
in that's not already there.
Spirituality is already there.
It's allowing it to come forth.
I think the second premise
is that we're not espousing
religion in the workplace.
We're talking spirituality.
So I think those are the kind
of two things that I think maybe
solve the concern that maybe
some people would have.
>> I think some
people would also say,
once you bring that feel into an
office atmosphere, a workplace,
that somehow it changes
the relationship with
your employees.
It makes it more maybe
intimate, maybe closer.
Someone said this
to me the other day
in reference to your book.
And I thought, yes, and?
So what would you
say to someone who
says, but you get a
different relationship going?
>> Yeah.
First of all, spirituality
is one of about 10 elements
in my book.
>> Yes.
>> I blame a holistic,
integrated approach.
But if we're going to take
the spirituality aspect
of the book, I would say, yes,
that people do feel closer.
Because I think that's a
lot of what spirituality is
is feeling more connected
with those around you.
So I would say that
closeness is a part of it.
It also is about
feeling more caring,
actually caring about people.
Because I think the real gain,
Chantal, of spirituality--
I mean, spiritual
practice is one thing.
But I think the real game is,
how are we showing up each day?
Are we smiling at the other
person, or are we frowning?
Are we encouraging them
or discouraging them?
>> What began this
journey for you?
I mean, here you are.
You're the president
of a company.
You're one of the big guys
in the world of business.
How did this journey
begin for you?
>> I'm going to be careful in
taking in one of the big guys.
I think we're all unique,
important creatures.
So it's very difficult
for me to say, if I'm big
and everybody else
is big, great.
>> True.
But realistically
speaking, president, CEO.
>> Head coach, I call myself.
>> Even better.
I love that.
>> We don't have any CEOs
or managers in our company.
>> On your business
card, what does it say?
>> Head coach.
>> I love that.
>> I'll tell you
a story on that.
After a CEO seminar, I was
talking with Lee Iacocca.
And he said, I'll send
you some materials.
Give me your business card.
I handed it to him.
He said, come on, boy,
don't you want to be a CEO?
I said, no, Mr. Iaccoca.
I don't.
He thought I was pretty weird.
>> I can imagine he saying that.
I can see that very, very well.
I appreciate your point of view.
And I love it.
And I embrace it.
But to the world, because
you do have that title,
and let's say head
coach, it puts you
in the position of leadership.
That's what I meant.
It puts you in the
position of leadership.
And I think it's a
bold move to move
in the direction of holistic
health, of Feng shui,
of spirituality
in the workplace.
And it's a good move.
I wonder how you took that step.
>> Well, I took the step due to
a three ring wake up call that
I had in 1989.
>> A three ring wake up call?
>> I call it my three
ring wake up call.
>> What happened?
>> Divorce, end of
a 25 year marriage.
Cancer.
I found a lump
shaving one morning.
And they took it out.
And I had radiation.
And thirdly, my business
was on the ropes.
One morning my chief financial
officer came in and said, Tom,
our credit line's exhausted.
And we're $1 million
short on the bank account.
All three of those things
happened within four months
in 1989.
>> Wow.
>> And those are the three
major wake up calls that happen
in our lives.
Love relationship,
health, and career.
And all three of
those happened to me.
So before that,
I was looking at,
how do I manage and control
wife, kids, employees.
And I had to go, wait a minute.
That's not working.
Looks like I don't know how
to manage myself very well.
So then I went within
and determined,
I need a different game plan.
So out of that
came this game plan
that I developed over
the last 10 years
in winning in the game of life.
>> There is a phrase in your
book that resonates with me.
You referred to working out and
working in and the differences.
I love that.
And I'd love to hear
you talk about it.
>> Well, that was not my phrase.
My tai chi instructor one
day in late '89, early '90,
I hadn't been practicing
as much when I
wasn't in our weekly sessions.
So he asked me if
I'd been practicing.
I said, no.
I really haven't had time.
I've been working out a lot.
In other words, I was
playing basketball.
I said, I've been
working out a lot,
but I haven't had a
chance to do my tai chi.
He looked at me and
said, working out,
as opposed to working in.
Busted.
>> Busted.
>> Big time.
>> So that meant I was
still, at that point,
engaged in intellectual
pursuits, working out,
building up, and not
really going inside.
>> I hope you're aware of
the gifts that you pass
on to the world.
Because, for example,
that's a phrase
that I will remember and
use for the rest of my life.
>> I pass it on and got
it from somebody else.
I think that's what
it's all about.
>> Precisely.
>> Learning and teaching.
Learning and teaching.
>> Precisely.
>> Thank you.
It's just a wonderful
aspect of it.
Were there people
in your life, as you
began this new way of working,
that said to you, Tom,
you're nuts.
Don't do this?
>> Yeah.
I think with regard
to meditation
and a macrobiotic,
primarily vegetarian diet,
some of the things that
were very different
than those types of
things, a lot of people
just won't say anything.
They'll be thinking it.
But some would say that.
But I really
developed this sense.
As I cleared and the alcohol
consumption went down
to virtually nothing, healthier
food coming into my body,
the meditation, which began
to clear the ravaging thoughts
that were coming through,
toxic relationships ending,
then I began to really clear,
and innately began knowing what
was right for me
and what wasn't.
I mean, just when you
clear out, our bodies
have this innate wisdom
that is incredible.
>> You know what's striking to
me about this as well is when I
hear you speak
this way, I'm very,
very impressed to hear a man,
and a powerful man speaking
that way.
Because so often people
have thought over the years,
this is very much
a woman's world,
the idea of spirituality,
and good eating, and getting
rid of toxic relationships.
But to see a man right
smack dab in the middle
of corporate America setting
examples for other men,
it's remarkable.
I'd like to hear you talk
about how you have affected
other men in this business.
>> First of all, I want to
credit those I've learned from.
And I've learned from women
who've run with the wolves.
>> Oh, yes.
>> And probably of
my personal mentors,
of six or seven of them, five
or six of them are women.
So I've learned, I was real
heavy on the masculine.
And I really wasn't utilizing
the feminine part of me.
And they awakened that
through my psychologist,
through my energy
and body workers,
through others that
mentored me, with me.
So I want to credit that first.
Now, how is that
accepted by other men?
Or how has that
affected other men?
Is that the question?
>> It is the question.
Because you're such
a great example.
And I think men will have a
hard time looking at a woman
and saying, yeah.
I'm going to do that.
But when they see a guy like
you who is just all-male--
>> Thank you.
>> You're welcome.
You're just a guy's guy.
And to see you setting
that example is remarkable.
So do you see differences in
corporate America, in men?
And I know it's almost a
question that makes you shy.
But I'd love to hear you
talk about it, because it
is what it is.
>> OK.
Let's talk about who I
maybe had a good fortune
to affect in recent years.
>> Yes.
>> Up until now.
Have been people that I've been
exposed to in a tighter vein.
Whereas with the book and
things that are happening now,
I think it will
be a wider range.
But right now, there's, I
think, a bell curve going.
I think that a third of
them think, he's nuts,
and I wouldn't do
this in a minute.
A third of them say, wow.
Wait a minute.
He's achieving some of the kind
of things maybe I'd like to.
So I'm going to listen up.
And some of this stuff I'm going
to really seriously consider.
And maybe a third
that are saying, wow,
this really makes sense.
And they're making significant
changes and modifications.
So I see kind of the
bell curve going there.
And these permissions,
you're right.
And I consider myself
somewhat of a Trojan horse
in terms of being in
this corporate world.
And fortunately because of
maybe the way I look and act,
and my experience, and I talk
like them, and act like them,
then I think they are more open
to hearing what I have to say,
even though some other people
have at least as much, or maybe
more to say on some
of these subjects,
I consider myself
kind of a translator
in merging the personal growth,
higher consciousness movement
with the business world.
And by the way, they each have
a lot to share with each other.
And what this book
is about is taking
the best of what I've learned
in the business world,
with the best I've learned
in the higher consciousness,
personal growth movement.
And each of them have a lot
to learn from each other.
And winning in the game of
life is merge the lessons
in both of these.
And merge the masculine and
the feminine, intuitive and the
linear.
And merge them together,
and kind of a fun thing.
>> With remarkable
results, I might add.
Truly remarkable.
>> Remarkable results.
By results you mean?
>> Well, the success
of your business.
The happiness of your employees.
>> Yeah.
In terms of results,
that would be one.
You're right.
Our employees.
The teammate
enthusiasm index is up.
Profitability is significantly
up over the years.
We've grown from '89, where we
had 24 stores, to 150 stores
today.
That's career success.
Remember, we talked about I was
on the rocks in three areas.
So career success is
changed tremendously.
>> Let's talk about your
personal success then,
in your life.
>> Yeah.
Then the second element is the
personal relationship success,
and winning in relationships.
>> Yes.
>> And by winning,
I mean deeper,
more fulfilling relationships.
>> I would venture to
guess you're not in a toxic
relationship now.
>> No.
Not at all.
And by the way, that
toxicity was shared.
It wasn't like, oh boy, she
was toxic, and I wasn't.
>> No.
I understand that.
>> We were both dancing
and playing that game.
And both of us have grown
tremendously as a result.
So I want to be careful.
Oh, no.
She did this.
I was at least
equally, or more so.
>> I think by those of us
who know toxic relationships,
we know it takes two.
>> Two to tango.
>> Uh-huh.
People watching this
say, I get toxic.
Because it takes two people
to dance that dance for sure.
>> Right.
So the relationships are
much, much deeper, Chantal.
Yeah.
With my mate, Mary.
With my children.
Before it was kind
of on the surface.
I mean, did we interact?
Did we have a pretty
good relationship?
Yeah.
But the depth with which we now
communicate, it's much deeper.
Same with my parents.
Same with co-workers.
There's another level there
that I didn't know existed.
And I was a little
too surfacy before.
And I really think that
is what life is about.
It's about how deep are
those relationships?
If we're on the surface,
we're really not living fully.
So those are the first
two areas that have really
changed tremendously.
>> And the third?
>> The third is that
of physical health.
Out of the throes of cancer,
with radiation, surgery
and radiation in '89
a couple of years
ago I needed to get increased
amounts of insurance.
Cause as our company
grew, the insurance on me
needed to go up.
So we needed many millions of
dollars in insurance money.
So we approached
my insurance agent,
and he just kind of
laughed and said, well,
with the cancer and
radiation, really
I don't think we can get
any more insurance for you.
He said, well, listen,
let's give it a try anyway.
So I took a complete physical.
And he called back one night.
And I'd known him
for like 35 years.
And he was virtually in tears.
And he said, I've
never seen anything
like this in 35 years of
being an insurance agent.
He says, you were dinged for
the cancer and the radiation.
But when everything
else was factored in,
you did so well
on everything else
that not only can we insure you,
but of the six risk categories
that we have, you're
in the lowest.
>> Wow.
>> So it was very affirming.
He said, I used to laugh at the
mediation, and the way you eat,
and some of the other
things, body work, and some
of the other things
in your life.
But he says, this
is unbelievable.
Never in 35 years.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So this was 1989, in
a four month period.
All three of our potential
areas for wake up calls.
Not that there aren't
others, but those are three
of the biggest came at once.
So I had to look and
say, OK, how have I been?
It's a reassessment
time, obviously.
So what I discovered
in that reassessment
was that I spent a lot of
time controlling other people,
managing other people.
Man, I was the ultimate
manage, control.
Kids, spouse, employees.
Man, oh, man.
And if I heard
something in a seminar,
or I read it in
a book, never did
I say, wow, I could use that.
I'd say, oh, yeah,
she ought to do that.
Or yeah.
The kids, they
need to read this.
And in fact, I'll probably
underline it for them.
Or the employees, yeah.
We'll get them going on that.
I didn't get it.
But this caused a tremendous
reassessment that said, no.
You can't look outside anymore.
I couldn't send
enough endorphins
to the rescue with my workouts.
I couldn't outhink it.
And I didn't have the kind of
psychological and spiritual
depth to be able to handle it.
So those things sent
me crashing down.
So how did I get out?
I limped in to a therapist.
After I interviewed
five, I found
a person who ended up being
my most valuable mentor
and therapist.
And that woman happens
to be in the room.
Brenda, would you come up,
please, for just a sec?
And that is Brenda Schafer.
And Brenda, I want to
thank you a million.
Big round of applause
for this lady.
[APPLAUSE]
With Brenda, and reading
Yogananda, Krishnamurti,
Uspenski, Gurdjieff, Dalte
Ching, "Course of Miracles,"
many, many things,
psychologically, many books
on psychology.
Brenda, incredible
help with psychology.
So psychological,
spiritual things.
Took tai chi classes.
I went full court press on this.
I figured at 42 years
old, how easy is it
to change a 42-year-old male?
We're talking tough stuff.
So I figured I
couldn't just have
these kind of part measures.
I think I'll just
kind of dabble and go
in and see a therapist
for a couple, three months
to find out where everybody
else is screwed up.
No.
That wasn't going to fly.
So or or for me, born again,
and just kind of in denial,
but everything else was just
determined, I'll be born again.
It took full court press,
all cylinders going.
So out of that came--
and I had no idea
in those days there
was going to be any
book out of that.
That only surfaced in
the last three years,
after tremendous amount of
making tons of mistakes.
And I kind of considered my
company and my personal life
kind of like my laboratory.
I'd mix this up and try this.
And whoop.
That didn't work.
OK.
I'll try this.
And this works.
And after a lot of
trial and error,
I came up with a game plan
that really works for me.
It's served up, however, to
everybody else buffet style.
So in this book, for
instance, the word
should you won't be able to
find anywhere in that book,
unless Random House
slipped it in somewhere.
Because every time I
saw that was in there,
we got it out of there.
The word oughta is not in there.
The word need to
is not in there.
Cause we're all CEO and head
coach of our own existence.
>> Now there are probably--
there are likely CEOs, heads
of companies watching this now.
And the thought running
through their head
is, well, how do I begin this?
So what would you say
to those men and women?
What's the first step?
Because it seems huge.
It seems so daunting.
What's the first step?
>> The first step, as I say in
my book "Winning in the Game
of Life," is to
discover our mission.
This is a 10 element
game plan, of which
there's like 10 plays in
each of these elements.
Because the bad news
is, everybody says,
what's the secret to success?
The bad news is,
there's a ton of them.
The good news is, none of
them are that difficult.
So the first step is that
of discovering or clarifying
your mission, your
why, why I'm here.
>> Is this where you talk
about in "Winning in the Game
of Life," the personal
mission statement?
>> Right.
>> What is a personal
mission statement?
>> Well, a personal
mission statement,
you know how companies
have mission statements?
Their purpose.
Their reason for being.
Well, individually, I think
we're all like CEO or head
coach of ourselves,
our own existence.
So why shouldn't we have a
mission statement, a purpose,
a reason for being.
>> Of course.
>> And it can be one sentence.
Or it can be two pages.
Mine's seven sentences.
>> What are they?
>> The first is to become
more awakened, more conscious,
more in the present moment.
Second is to live
by the principles
that help get me there.
And that's the principles
according to "Winning
in the Game of Life."
The third is to share love and
any information with regard
to this game plan when asked,
with family and friends.
The fourth is to share it
in my business organization.
Not shoulds.
Not oughtas.
By the way, you won't find
the word should, oughta,
or need to anywhere
in that book,
or anywhere in anything
in our company.
It's serving it up buffet style.
So sharing this in our business
organization is the next.
And then the next
evolution outward
is sharing this in the
community or world at large,
through the book.
>> Right.
>> Six is to respect the Earth.
Walk the Earth.
And walk and engage
in sustainability.
And make sure we respect
this Earth that we're on.
>> When people pass you in
the hall of your company,
do they say, hey, coach?
>> They say, hi, Tom.
>> Doesn't matter what
position they hold.
>> Right.
And the few that do say
Mr. Gegax, I say, it's Tom.
>> You know, I can really
understand why the title
of your book is "Winning
in the Game of Life,"
because you truly are a winner.
And I congratulate
you for setting
an example for the world.
>> Thank you very much.
>> What a pleasure
to talk to you.
>> Chantal, thank you.
>> Just a pleasure.
Thanks.
>> Thank you so much.
Pleasure to talk with you.
>> You set a great
example for me.
>> Thank you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]